## **Avian Assault**

#### **by James Leonardi and Kevin Tao**

### **INTRODUCTION**

This document describes a game called "Avian Assault", which is designed to be an action shooter/defense game where you fend off waves of increasingly powerful enemies while cultivating your windmills, which provide the energy for useful power-ups and new weapons.

### **TECHNOLOGY**

Avian Assault will be developed for the Windows Platform using Unreal Engine 5. UE5 uses either Vulkan or DirectX as its underlying graphics API. Artwork, sounds, and other assets will be used from free items on the Unreal marketplace.

### **BACK STORY**

Tepster Tomsper, after killing all of his fiendish anachronistic clones, has gotten a job at Vinci VR building windmills. However, an accidental encounter with mystical fertilizer at Trader Joe's granted him the ability to talk to birds. Through the constant and deafening chirping in his ears, he discovered an avian-alien alliance plotting to steal Earth's wind energy to power the **Galactic Annihilator™** , a device capable of obliterating entire star systems. Armed with a shovel, guns, and a penchant for puns, Tepster must defend his offshore wind farm in a thrilling battle against birds and aliens.

### **OBJECTIVE**

Tepster must construct and upgrade windmills, which will enable him to acquire new weapons and power-ups to better defend his territory from the Avian-Alien Alliance (AAA). The windmills are constantly generating energy, which gets converted into money he can use to buy more effective weapons. Additionally, the energy generated by the windmills enchants him with powerful boons, allowing him to more effectively slaughter the wildlife. Building more windmills allows him to generate more energy, but this comes with the drawback of having more property to protect. The company would be furious if he let their property be damaged! Oh, the insurance costs!

### **GAMEPLAY**

The game will be played from the first-person view. Tepster must defend his windmills by killing approaching enemies with his weapons. He can purchase new weapons using money generated by the windmills. Interacting with a windmill will spend money to upgrade it, increasing its energy generation. Depending on the amount of energy generation, Tepster will also receive various power-ups. The variety of guns and power-ups available are such:

| **Weapon** | **Cost** | **Effect** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Shovel | None | Tepster's standard-issue melee weapon from the company. |
| Pistol | None | Tepster's signature weapon; a beloved relic of his past adventures. |
| Mauser M1889 | $ | A classic WWI-era rifle, which allows for long-ranged combat with dirt-cheap ammunition. |
| Shotgun | $$ | A devastating firearm for close-range combat, or for obliterating large groups of enemy combatants. |
| Energy Blade | $$$ | A prototype developed by the company for use in exigent circumstances. Can shoot energy beams by swinging it. |
| Minigun | $$$$ | A 5.56×45mm NATO light machine gun developed by Valve. |
| Laser Beam | $$$$$ | A firearm capable of beaming high-energy photon rays in a condensed, destructive beam. Infinite range. |
| The Atomizer™ | $$$$$$$ | The pinnacle of galactic engineering. Launches antimatter at enemies, obliterating them unconditionally. |

| **Powerup** | **Energy Gen Required** | **Effect** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Slow Time | ⚡ | Slows the enemy's movements for a period of time. |
| Explosive Rounds | ⚡⚡ | Empowers Tepster's gun rounds to have an AOE Blast of damage. |
| Chain Explosion | ⚡⚡⚡ | When enemies die, they explode, causing significant damage around them. |
| Thermonuclear Bomb | ⚡⚡⚡⚡⚡⚡ | Sacrifices a windmill to cause the instant annihilation of all enemies, leaving a damaging radioactive field. |
| The Hand of God™ | ⚡⚡⚡⚡⚡⚡⚡⚡ | A mystical glove that supremely enhances Tepster's melee weapons. Empowers even the most basic of utensils to cleave worlds in two. |

### **CONTROLS**

This game will be played using both a keyboard and mouse. Once started, use the following:

- **W** - Move Forward
- **A** - Move Left
- **S** - Move Backward
- **D** - Move Right
- **Q** - Change Weapon
- **E** - Interact with Windmill
- **1-5** - Toggle/Use Powerup
- **SPACE** - Jump
- **Left Mouse** - Attack
- **Right Mouse** - Aim
- **ESC** - Pause/Resume

### **GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE**

- **Splash Screen** - The splash screen GUI simply presents a game logo and a Start button for the user to press when they are ready to play. Upon pressing it, a brief scripted sequence is played explaining a little about Tepster and the backstory for the game. While playing the message, "Press ESC to Skip'' should be displayed at the bottom of the screen. If pressed, the game should immediately start.
- **Main Menu** - While the game is not started, we'll have a game menu that allows the player to select from the following options:
  - **New Game** - Starts a new game session. Allows you to pick the map/level.
  - **Continue** - Continue the previous game session (if dev time permits).
  - **Controls** - Shows game controls.
  - **About** - Displays the game's background text (above) and authors.
  - **Exit** - Quits the game.
- **Pause Menu** - While the game is in progress, we'll have a pause menu that allows the player to select from the following options:
  - **Resume Game** - Stops pausing. Can also press ESC to unpause.
  - **Exit** - Return to the main menu.
- **In-Game GUI** - While playing the following will be displayed at all times:
  - Time remaining until the next wave.
  - Ammo
  - Health
  - Energy Generation
  - Money
  - Powerup status
- When interacting with a windmill, a menu will appear that allows the player to upgrade it, as well as purchase a new weapon.
- A button will appear between waves that allow the user to start a wave immediately.

### **ARTWORK**

All complex artwork and models in the game will be from the Unreal marketplace. Simple 2D assets will be AI-generated or original, such as static images and UI. The following needs to be acquired:

- **Tepster** - We will use a free model from Epic Games of Revenant from Paragon.
- **Enemies** - Birds and aliens.
- **Windmill** - We will not be entering the windmill, only the outside needs to be textured. We will use free windmill assets. This windmill will change models depending on its upgrade status.
- **Environment** - The environment will be a simple farm area with various obstacles. A second level will be on an island, restricting space for movement and constructing windmills.
- **Weapons** - The weapons will be sourced from various places. We need a model for each weapon.
- **Powerups** - The powerups will just be VFX, of which there are plenty of free samples from the Unreal Marketplace.

### **SOUND EFFECTS**

All sound effects will be either be default from Unreal Engine, sourced from Unreal marketplace, or created by ourselves. Sounds must be made to coincide with each of the following events:

- **Walking**
- **Jumping**
- **Running**
- **Sound effects for each weapon**
- **Sound effects for each powerup**
- **Death**
- **Sounds for each enemy**
- **Wave clear**
- **Wave start**
- **Upgrade windmill**
- **Purchase item**

### **MUSIC**

Game Music will be made with AI.
